I'm Matt Ripley.
I am the vice principal here
at Marshview Middle School in Sackville,
New Brunswick.
And the topic I'm going to talk about
today is wellbeing at school.
This topic relates to,
our district improvement plan,
which the goal is that every student
will feel safe and cared for,
which also aligns with one of our goals
here at school.
We want everybody to feel safe
and we want to feel it.
We want everybody to feel like
they belong.
So part of that, of course, involves
student relationships with each other.
We want to foster a culture where students
feel safe and respected throughout.
But something that we do intentionally
here is one of our school improvement
goals, is to make sure
that we are connected.
All of our students are connected
with a safe adult here in the building.
And we do that
in a couple of different ways.
One way is that when students
enter in grade five or when a new student
comes to our school for the first time,
we'll have an interview,
usually with our guidance counselor, to
just get to know them a little bit better,
see what their interests are.
See if they have any preferred
names or pronouns.
And then very quickly,
we move to making sure that they have
a safe adult here at school
with whom they feel connected.
Oftentimes it can be the homeroom teacher,
and usually it is,
especially with our younger kids.
But it doesn't necessarily have to be,
they can feel connected with the guidance
counselor or the behavior mentor,
or sometimes it's even the custodian who
they feel a connection with or
or an administrator or a former teacher.
Sometimes it's somebody
they've known in the community,
but the important thing is that they have
somebody that they feel safe with.
We know that throughout middle school,
developmentally, children tend to.
Well, the rolling out of adults
in their lives tend to diminish slowly
over time in the role of friendships
and peers becomes more and more important,
which is a good thing.
But as they kind of navigate
the ups and downs in middle
school,
it's important that there's a safety net.
It's important
that they have somebody to go to.
And when that's not the case, students
will often try
to solve problems on their own.
And sometimes when
when something comes to the office,
that's usually what it is, is
the student was trying to fix something,
they were trying to solve a problem,
and it got bigger than them,
and they didn't know when to seek help.
So if we foster those relationships
and make sure that they do have a safe
and caring adult in their lives
here in the building,
that maybe they will start to go for help
and then they will feel safe and secure,
to come and talk to us.
if a student is struggling,
you know, we'll have a conversation
with staff members who who do they have?
Do they have a safe adult
who has a connection with that kid?
And if we don't have an answer to that,
then we're going to have to find one.
You know, we'll have to work with that kid
and reach out
and make sure they do have a connection,
or they do have a safe person to talk to.
Another way we can do
that is through our advisory program.
This year, advisory is with homeroom.
It's about 20 minutes throughout the day,
but it really does
give a time
where we can talk about other things.
You know, it kind of takes our foot off
the gas in terms of academics and allows
that space to have conversations
about safety and well-being.
Advisory
gives a chance for students
to talk a little bit
more openly and freely about
what's really going on in their lives.
And it gives the teachers a chance
to kind of talk to them, you know,
in a real way, rather than about math
or whatever the subject matter is.
So for us,
I think if there's one takeaway,
it is to start with building relationships
and do it early, find those kids
whenever there's a new one.
You know, reach out, connect with them,
you know, have a conversation,
find out what makes them tick.
Because if you invest in that early on,
then it really does pay dividends
later on, especially
when things start to get a little bumpy.
So we want to create
those positive experiences early on.
So we have that relationship to draw
on when we need it later on.